Welcome. This week I will
teach you dynamic programming.
We will go through one example,
but once you understand that,
you'll be able to apply dynamic
programming to anything.
So you start by laying out
the problem like this,
where you have the
source wordplay
here down the left column,
and then the target
words to transform into
stay along the top row here and
an empty string
placeholder presented by
the hashtag symbol at the
start of each string here.
The reason for this will make
more sense in the steps ahead.
There are also some
row and column indices
here just to make things a
bit easier to follow along.
Now the goal is to fill out
this distance matrix D,
such that the element
D(2,3), for example,
refers to the minimum edit
distance from pl to sta,
which is the first two
letters of the word play
to the first three letters
of the target word stay.
More generally for any element
in the matrix by
using this formula
for the element at row i and
column j being i equals 2,
and j equals 3 in the
example pl to sta.
From the previous few slides,
you know, each D of i,
j will be the minimum
at the distance
between the beginning of
the source word to index i,
and the beginning of the
targets word to index j.
So that's for a source of
length m and a
target of length n,
when you get to the
bottom right corner,
D (m, n), you have
the minimum edit distance
between the two strings.
You will compute this from
the shortest sub-string
to the full string,
that is starting with
the shortest string in
the top left corner and working
down then to the right.
The intuition is that
you can build upon
each sub-problem by
combining solutions.
For example, finding the
minimum edit distance
between two letters is easy.
Then you increase the problem
size one letter at a time,
building on what
you already know.
If this seems confusing
at first, don't worry,
it is, but it will start to
make more sense as you
work through the example.
But first, before
you get started,
recall the cost for each edit.
One for insert and delete
and two for replace.
So the first step is to
transform the source
empty string into the
targets empty string.
The edit distance
between the source
empty string and the targets
empty string is zero.
There is no formula here is
just a special case.
So far, so good.
To change nothing to nothing,
you do nothing good.
Then you can move on to p to
empty string and you can
do this with a delete,
edit operation at a cost of one.
Then empty string to s,
which you can do
with an insert at
its operation at a cost of one.
Now look at p to s. There is
more than one possible way
to make this transformation.
Each possible sequence of
edit is known as a path.
Starting with p, you can
insert s on the end to get ps.
Then the leads p from the
beginning to get to s. This has
a cost of one insert and
one delete at this point.
Notice that you've already
calculated the cost of
inserting a letter s. It's
found in this red box here on
top when you calculate
how to get from
empty string two s.
So you actually just
calculate the cost of
deleting the p and add it onto
the cost that you've stored
in the red box above.
This is 1 plus 1 equals
2 and the second possible
path starting with p,
you can delete p to,
get hashtag and then
insert s to get
s. Notice again
that you've already
calculated the cost of deleting
p in this blue box in the left.
The blue box is the
cost of going from p to
hashtag by deleting p. So you
can calculate the cost of
inserting p and add it
to the cost that you've stored
in the blue box on the left.
This is 1 plus 1 equals 2.
The third way is to
replace p with s,
so that you go from p to s in
one step at the cost of
two for replacement.
Visually, you can
think of going from
this green box and jumping
directly into the orange box.
The green box is the
cost of not doing
any edit, which is zero.
A replacement has a cost of two,
so 0 plus 2 equals 2.
Then you take the minimum of
all three of these paths,
which is a 2 in this case.
Then place that
value in the cell,
which gives you the minimum
added distance from p to
s. So working off what
you've already filled out,
you will notice that
to fill in a cell,
you need to know
the cell above to
the left and adjacent upper-left,
shown in red, blue,
and green here.
In doing so, you can benefit from
some calculations
already performed.
Soon, I'll show you
how to generalize
this in a formula to fill
out the rest of the matrix.
But first I will show
you how to fill out
the first column and
the first row so that
every cell remaining
has it's own red,
blue, and green cells
available as dependencies.
This is what's coming up next.